Previously on House of David...
When I was young. there were these stones.
Your mother loved them.
so I had this made for her.
I trust you've checked
every corner for scorpions?
We must be careful to crush them.
If there's love to be found.
I must embrace it while I still can.
Jonathan.
what are you doing here? Jonath--
David. I have never been chosen.
I deserve to have a future
as much as Mychal.
Please. don't embarrass me.
Tell me. son of Judah.
Does your conscience still drown
in the blood of the innocent family
you slaughtered?
Get away. son. Run!
Lately. you seem to be fighting
more than the enemy.
They would crown that boy
today if they could.
He is a threat.
Why do you refuse to see it?
My king.
David.
I will not marry Mirab. Do what you must.
If David is not grateful
for the favor of his king. let him leave.
Banish him back to the hills
of Bethlehem. Back to nothing!
And what then? You are the one
who put him on this pedestal.
Should he step off. the people
will blame you for it. not him.
Ah. my king. your hands are tied.
A king's hands are never tied!
There is another solution.
Close the doors and leave us.
Give David what he wants.
Let him marry Mychal.
But only after he completes
one last mission.
One that will prove his worthiness.
win her hand.
One he will not survive.
My queen. the boy serves this house.
He inspires our people.
Then let them be inspired one last time.
The giant slayer will die a hero
at the hands of our enemies.
Leave our nation with a legend
they will cherish...
and soon forget.
My king. this plan comes
with significant risk should it fail.
Then don't fail. Abner.
But I do care about the boy.
I know.
But David grows more powerful by the day.
and soon you will not
be able to contain him.
My king...
my husband.
Heed my words as you always have
for the sake of your throne
and the future of our family.
David must die.
You make it look harder than it is.
Oh. I confess
I don't have much experience.
Mmm. Not a regular part
of a prince's duties?
I can see why you love it here.
Jonathan?
Why have you come?
- To ask you to marry me.
- Jonathan.
I'm sorry about your brother.
that I could not protect him.
And you're right.
- I take lives. I--
- It was unfair of me to blame you.
And I know my brother
was honored to fight beside you.
But as much as I can understand it.
I cannot live your life.
Then we will build our own life.
I love you.
You have healed more than my body.
I cannot see my future without you.
I-I refuse to.
You're the firstborn prince of Israel.
One day. whether I like it or not.
you are going to be king...
and I do not wish to be queen.
- What if I wasn't?
- Wasn't what?
Going to be king.
But you are.
There's something I need to tell you.
Have you come to gloat?
I came to apologize.
I never intended to hurt you.
You would have to matter
to me for your betrayal to hurt.
Besides. my father will probably
banish you to Egypt.
Or maybe have you dragged
behind a hundred horses
- until you beg for death...
- Mirab.
...or make you a eunuch.
Hmm. I like it.
I'll recommend it to him myself.
- I wish I could explain to you why.
- There is nothing for you to explain.
We had a public arrangement.
An arrangement is no reason to marry.
It isn't fair to either of us.
Do not talk to me about what is fair.
I only ever asked you for one thing.
One. do not embarrass me.
And now it appears
you have embarrassed us both.
You defied the man who made you
famous because you want what you want.
and you do not care who you hurt.
And now. you will face the consequences.
Goodbye. David. You will not be missed.
Samuel anointed David. a shepherd.
to be the next king of Israel?
Yes.
And your father does not know this?
No.
So if he finds out...
What about Mychal. does she know?
Only me. And. uh. well. now you.
I should have told you
I am not good at lying.
Sorry.
Why are you telling me this?
Because God has a design.
And it is clear it does not
involve me becoming king.
I'm sorry.
No. I've spent my entire life watching
other men discover their destinies...
while mine laid before me.
already written in stone.
Now God has chosen David.
and somehow. I feel...
relief.
In truth. I feel free.
Perhaps for the first time in my life.
But I do not need to search for passion...
because it walked into my life
and it found me.
So. marry me?
When?
Today. Here.
Only in the presence of God and your kin.
All I desire is here.
Do you know the turmoil
you have caused in this house?
Speak the truth to me.
You refuse to marry Mirab
because of your love for Mychal. yes?
Yes.
And you would do anything for this love?
You would die for it?
I would.
I married for love
when I was not much older than you.
Well. then you must understand.
I do. And I am willing to compromise.
I will allow you to marry Mychal
because I know you love her.
But. first. you must prove
your devotion to me.
Anything.
I will fight any battle for you.
The Philistine Forge at Gath.
Where they were crafting weapons of iron?
You must destroy it.
burn it to the ground.
Consider it done.
It will not be easy.
It is fortified and elevated.
they will see your army
from a long distance away.
Well. then I will take only my finest men.
You will do more than that.
They have raided my villages.
murdered my people.
In return...
you will personally kill 100 Philistines
and bring me their foreskins.
This will make you
worthy of my daughter's hand.
My king. I would kill 1.000
if it meant I could be with Mychal.
Then may God be with you.
But. David...
love is one thing. Loyalty is another.
You will speak of this to no one.
Especially Mychal.
I will not disappoint you.
Thank you.
David?
Before you go...
will you play for me?
Jonathan. son of Saul.
today you have honored our family...
as you join our houses...
...and take my granddaughter.
Sara. as your wife.
As beautiful as ever.
God go with you. son.
It was foolish what you did.
And brave.
Mostly foolish.
Ah.
Mychal. can I ask you a question?
Mm-hmm.
If we could still marry. would you?
David.
We've talked about this. We can't.
If we could.
Why are you asking me this? Why now?
If I could say more. I would.
but all I need is a simple yes or no.
Mmm. Yes.
But. David.
that doesn't change the situation.
Please just trust me. I will be back.
- Back?
- Yes.
- Back? Back from where?
- I will be back.
David.
Where else in my kingdom
can I drink wine like this?
Mmm.
It is decidedly strong.
Mmm. Strength knows strength.
I'm afraid to ask what it is made from.
Best you don't.
Surely Samuel is not still in your head?
Like a termite.
We have each suffered from pestilence.
But I turn my blade
on my enemies. not myself.
That is how I was freed from this.
So. if God no longer troubles you.
what is it?
David.
I would ask how you knew that.
I listen. I observe.
Mmm.
But I will tell you a story.
I knew a man once.
He kept a tiger. magnificent creature.
He fed it by hand only the finest meat.
and the tiger loved him for that.
until one day.
it decided it had
a taste for something. uh...
richer.
Time came. the tiger had to go.
And you have friends?
A great many friends.
In Philistia?
Philistia?
I listen as well. I observe.
Send them a message.
But. Doeg. remember who you serve.
Always. my king.
Does your conscience still drown
in the blood of the innocent family
you slaughtered?
Eliab. tell him. You know me.
Merciful God. please.
Eliab. tell him.
So. you're going to kill your way
to the throne. is that it?
Keep your voice down.
These are our enemies. Eliab.
I'm starting to question
what that even means.
No. You're staying.
Really?
You're going to fight without me?
Do you have a death wish?
No. But you do.
I see the way you fight
out there every battle.
You don't listen to orders or reason.
You put everyone's lives
around you at risk.
You're the one who's going to
get yourself killed. brother.
But not on my command.
David. where is Eliab?
Eliab's not coming.
- No?
- David?
Uriah.
May I see your sword?
All right.
For you. commander. freshly forged
of iron by our new blacksmith.
- Wow.
- All yours.
Very nice. Thank you. Uriah.
Let's go put it to good use.
Let's ride.
My king. A message.
From where?
Israel.
Where are you. my king?
Hmm?
Because you are not here with me.
I am.
I am here.
There's no place I would rather be.
May I ask you a favor?
Mm-hmm.
When David marries Mychal.
it will be such a grand event.
Will you allow me to attend?
Not as a servant. but as a guest.
My dear...
that would create
quite a stir in this household.
Yes. [chuckles] Of course. I understand.
Mmm.
Kezia.
My sweet.
I shall find a way to make it up to you.
For bringing your light into my life.
Mm-hmm.
Mmm.
Don't get up. Stay down there
by my husband's feet.
What is it you want. Ahinoam?
Our son has returned...
with news.
Yeah?
Yes.
Here he comes.
In his nightgown?
- Jonathan?
- Good to see you.
- Yes.
- Father.
We have some news.
You're getting married. aren't you?
No.
We are married.
What? When?
Of course you are.
Jonathan. congratulations.
Hmm.
Our future king
has found his beautiful queen.
But the union is not valid.
Then we will make it valid.
This calls for a feast.
More.
Aw.
Look at them. See?
They're trying so hard
to look happy.
It's really sad.
What's spinning
in that little head of yours. sister?
It's nice. you know?
After everything.
they-they love each other.
and they-they found a way to be together.
Forgive me. angels.
Would you excuse me?
I'll be back.
Mother.
I know this isn't what
you envisioned for me.
But I love her. Deeply.
And I feel it in my spirit.
This is what God had intended for me.
Well. if you truly love her.
then how could I not be happy?
My boy.
Go enjoy yourself.
How are we supposed to
fight on half rations. huh?
There are never enough rations
for you. my friend.
Yes. David.
David. why do we always have to leave
the palace? Where are we going now?
We are going to destroy
an iron forge near Gath.
Why only 30 of us?
It's high and fortified.
And sometimes I feel I can do more with
my best men than an army of a thousand.
Yeah. Best men. That's why I'm here.
You're here
'cause you're his brother.
So. Uriah. you've traveled much.
haven't you?
I have. I am a Hittite.
I came here through Egypt
as a boy to trade.
Oh. you've been to Egypt?
Mmm. Yes. Yes.
and the great sea. Abinadab.
Hey. tell me about the women in Egypt.
They're not as beautiful
as the women here.
- Ah.
So why did you decide to stay.
Uriah? In Israel.
'Cause our gods were made of stone.
And your god is real.
Thank you for your generosity.
I am honored to join your family.
I have never seen this look on his face.
The honor is ours.
I want to make a toast
to my beloved brother. Jonathan.
who made the brave
and admirable choice to marry for love.
Brother. I hope it is
everything they say it is.
Endless joy.
And unwavering devotion.
I hope it's worth the risk.
So. to the prince.
To the prince.
I'm starting to regret
giving up wine myself.
Mirab. Mirab. look.
Well. seems someone is working her way up.
We all serve at the pleasure of the king.
Some more than others.
You invited your concubine
to our son's celebration?
No. I didn't.
Then order her out. Now.
Kezia.
I understand you are the one responsible
for bringing my son
and his beautiful wife together.
Yes. my king. She is a great healer.
Indeed.
Then it is you
we should be thanking for all of this.
Once a servant...
now she's an honored guest.
Please join us.
A seat.
She has no shame.
- Lehayim.
- Lehayim!
She's wearing Mother's necklace.
- I think it looks good on her.
- Eshbaal.
Don't blame the servant.
She's doing what she must.
She's surviving.
Honestly. I'm-I'm impressed.
No. she must be manipulating him somehow.
- Mychal. stop.
- Stop what?
Stop defending him.
I'm not defending him.
You think we don't know what is happening?
Why they called off my wedding?
No. I had nothing to do with that.
- You know that.
- Of course you didn't.
- Mirab. I swear that it was not--
- Don't. Please don't!
Stop it. Don't bother.
I don't care. I really don't. I...
And I don't know why
I ever listened to you.
- Mirab. wait!
- Mirab.
Okay. I'll go.
What do you think. commander?
Half a dozen guards. likely more within.
A number we can handle.
And yet far fewer
than a target like this deserves.
Take your positions.
How long do you think
it will take them to forget all about me?
That is not possible.
Tell me something.
What is it about me
that makes me so unchoosable?
Because that's what life has taught me.
Again and again.
Why did I try?
Everybody else gets what they want.
Even Eshbaal and you.
You didn't even want to get married.
Here you are.
Come away from there.
You're shivering. Come.
Mirab.
Come.
I have already mourned my father.
Please don't make me mourn you too.
I'm sorry.
I'm so tired.
- I need a drink.
- Ah. Eliab.
- My prince. Eshbaal.
- Ah. Welcome.
- I'd like to congratulate your brother.
- Ah. yes. To both of them.
Something is wrong.
Why are you not with David?
Abner did not send me.
Why would father send him off
without any of his men?
Joab?
Leave it with me.
Joab.
Is this a bat?
It was.
And where do you keep your pigeons?
I saw you.
I was simply freeing one of my birds.
Sometimes I spare one.
It makes me feel less. uh. heathen.
Steady now. Let's not do something
we will come to regret.
You sent a note
just as David left the palace.
To who. and what about?
Knowing will only drag you into
something you are best not to understand.
Tell me now. Edomite.
I know you hold a candle
for Princess Mychal.
Allow events to unfold as they will.
and you will come to thank me in the end.
Did you tell David he could marry me?
Lower your voice. Mychal.
Did you?
I did.
He is first proving his worth.
Proving his worth?
A-After everything he's done?
Mind your tongue. Mychal.
Why must you always hurt the ones
most loyal to you?
Yes. David loves me.
but he also loves you.
He would do anything for you.
And...
...where is he?
Father. where have you sent him?
Let's go!
- Yes?
- My prince. Apologies.
Joab.
It is about David.
I believe he is in trouble.
Go.
It's hard to breathe.
Something's not right here.
Check the guards.
If only the guards remain.
why is the fire still burning?
I don't know.
Wait! It's a trap!
Take cover!
Burn them alive.
Leaving so soon?
My queen.
I was not feeling well.
Oh.
That is a shame.
You seemed to be enjoying yourself.
Putting on quite...
the display.
He will grow tired of you.
What then?
Perhaps it is you he grows tired of.
They closed all the exits.
Move! They knew we were coming.
We've been betrayed.
We're going to burn alive in here. commander.
Help me move the jars
to the door!
But that's our only way out!
- David.
- I know.
We fight fire with fire.
Push! Push! Push! Push!
- Brothers. it is me they are after.
- They're coming.
If we survive this.
I will draw them to the front gate.
Then scatter and save yourselves.
- Ready?
- Yes. David.
Go! Move! Move! Split up!
There he is! Over here!
Kill David! Get him!
Seize him!
Dagonor. wait! Dagonor!
Stand down.
I will finish him myself.
Should I help him?
No.
Let the gods decide.
My king. let me finish this.
Hashem? The name?
- The god of gods.
- Is he? And there can be no other?
We need no other.
My king. He's only one man.
But their god
is now with him. not with Saul.
Giant slayer! Your king betrayed you!
Why do you fight for him?
Seize him! All of you!
Captain. Signal retreat.
Fall back! Retreat!
Retreating! They're retreating!
My king.
The Philistine Forge is no more.
Burned to the ground as promised.
But we suffered many losses
because they knew we were coming.
Someone in this house has betrayed us.
And the Philistines?
Did you slay 100 as I commanded?
No.
I slayed 200.
It is true.
I will have Mychal's hand in marriage.
and I expect your announcement tomorrow.
It will be done as promised.
Where is my wife?
David?
David. David.
David.
- What happened?
- Mychal.
Mychal.
Marry me.
Yes. Yes.
The plan was sound.
You have made him more powerful than ever!
No. You have done that yourself.
despite my warnings.
I see it now.
It is so clear to me.
You are my curse.
Curse?
Everything I have done.
I have done for you.
I brought a priestess
into our home to save you.
I banished my own son to protect you.
You are a vile woman.
Your every word is darkness!
And you are a weak and insecure man
who needs a servant girl
to make him feel like a king!
May God forgive me for ever listening
to a single word you have said!
God? You don't worship God.
You worship yourself.
And we are the ones judged for it.
I see why you cling to that shepherd boy.
Because deep in your heart.
you know the truth.
the same truth that Samuel spoke.
The words that made the king of Israel
cower and sob in his bed.
You asked why I put the crown
on Eshbaal's head. that's why.
Your reign is over. Saul.
God has given up on you.
Ahinoam!
Attend to the king.
Get away from me!
Mother?
Come here. Eshbaal!
And I want you out!
- I want you out of my sight!
- Father. stop! Stop it!
Stop it. Father! Stop it! Stop!
- Stop it. Father! Are you mad?
- Get away from me!
I want you out!
Out! Out of my life.
- You are my traitor.
- Stop!
Stop it!
Stop. Father!
Out! I want you out of this house!
All is over!
You have blasphemed against God.
and disgraced my kingdom!
You are banished!
Now you know how it feels...
to be betrayed by those
who claim to love you.